# Choosing a port number 

The first thing we need to do is to choose a port number for `ServerSocket`. This number is important. 
Because all the clients will listen to this port. And if this port is not responding, or the server
fails to start at this port, client will assume that the application is not running. 

So choosing a valid port number that is also unused by other applications 
is our first priority. Again we have to make this application support 
cross-platform. So we need to choose such port that is unused by any 
application running on any platform.

From [this wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_TCP_and_UDP_port_numbers), I found a list of port number, that is used by various application.

- The port numbers in the range from 0 to 1023 are the well-known ports or system ports
- Official ports should not be used.
- Unofficial ones might be on some PC. 

So we should choose free ports between them. I will list some of my choice 
of port number below:


    2016   
    42016
    24914
    
I could list many more ports, but I found these three likeable :p. 
Now we have to choose any one from these two. `2016` is too risky to use.
And we should choose at least two ports. One is primary and other is 
the backup. So that, if any one port fails, we can fall-back to the other. 

So I have come to this decision:
- `port 24914` will be our **primary port**
- `port 42016` will be our *backup port* in case we miss the primary one.


## Conclusion 

> **PRIMARY PORT: `24914`**
> **BACKUP PORT : `42016`**
    

 